 SECTION:
SUBJECT:
CLINICAL CARE GUIDELINES CCG-3 Page 1 of 6
TARGETED TEMPERATURE MANAGEMENT(TTM)POST RESUSCITATED CARDIAC ARREST
I. Eligible Patients
a. Inclusion Criteria:
i. The adult (≥18 yrs) pre-hospital or in-hospital post-cardiac arrest patient who
remains comatose following CPR and experience return of spontaneous circulation
(ROSC) within 60 minutes of collapse.
ii. Persistent coma following ROSC, defined as: unarousable unconsciousness, with no
voluntary response to verbal or tactile stimuli and no comprehensible speech.
iii. Prior to initiation of cooling, patient must be intubated, mechanically ventilated, and
sedated.
iv. Patient should be able to maintain blood pressure with or without vasopressors.
v. Thrombolysis, anti-platelet agents, or anticoagulants, as deemed necessary to treat a
primary cardiac condition, are not a contraindication to cooling.
b. Exclusion Criteria:
i. Persistent life-threatening arrhythmias
ii. Pulseless for > 60 minutes
iii. >12 hours since return of spontaneous circulation
iv. Severe active, life-threatening hemorrhage
v. Coma due to causes other than cardiac arrest i.e. drug overdose, stroke, pre-existing
coma, status epilepticus
II. Targeting 33 degrees Celsius or 36 degrees Celsius
a. Cooling should be initiated as soon as possible after ROSC, preferably within 4 hours. It can
be initiated in the Emergency Department, Cardiac Cath Lab or ICU.
b. Obtain Neurocritical care consult after ROSC for those undergoing TTM.
c. Patients should be cooled as quickly as possible to achieve the target goal of 33 or 36
degrees Celsius within 4 hours of initiation of hypothermia. The choice of the targeted
temperature will be made by the attending physician by taking into account factors such as:
the mechanism of cardiac arrest, comorbidities such as severe hypotension with use of
multiple vasopressors, presence of arrhythmias, and coagulopathies. Once goal temperature
is attained, it should be maintained for 24 hours (from the time target temperature is
reached). All patients who are eligible should be considered for TTM. Most patients will
likely be candidates for 36 degrees Celsius.
 SECTION:
SUBJECT:
CLINICAL CARE GUIDELINES CCG-3 Page 2 of 6
TARGETED TEMPERATURE MANAGEMENT(TTM)POST RESUSCITATED CARDIAC ARREST
d. Factors to consider to target 36 degrees Celsius rather than 33 degrees Celsius
i. Pregnancy
ii. Severe shock requiring multiple vasopressors
iii. Severe bradycardia
iv. Major surgery within 2 weeks
v. Severe coagulopathy
vi. Severe head trauma or intracranial hemorrhage
vii. Multi-trauma
III. TTM 33 degrees Celsius
a. Initiation
i. Confirm that the ventilator’s heated humidifier is off.
ii. Confirm that the patient has been sedated.
iii. Neuromuscular blockade may be used to prevent shivering during induction of
hypothermia. If neuromuscular blockade is necessary, use the minimum dose
required to prevent shivering. A continuous infusion is not required if shivering is
controlled with intermittent bolus administration. Titrate neuromuscular blockade
by using train of four to maintain 1-2/4 twitches.
b. External Cooling Methods
i. For patients not yet in the ICU (i.e. ED / Cath Lab), who have no evidence of
pulmonary edema, begin cooling by infusing 1-2 liters refrigerator chilled 0.9%
normal saline over 30 to 60 minutes through a peripheral or femoral venous line,
(Safety of chilled IV fluids via IJ or subclavian sites is unclear.)
ii. Apply ice packs to sides of neck and head and bilateral axilla and groin if needed.
iii. Ensure core temperature monitoring/insertion.
iv. Transfer patient to ICU or Cardiac Cath Lab as expeditiously as possible.
v. Once patient is in ICU, continue temperature management using the Arctic Sun
temperature management system.
1. Follow manufacturer instructions for applying ArcticGel Pads.
2. Select target temperature on Arctic therapy screen per practitioner order.
The standard therapy is set to a target of 33 degrees Celsius. Once target
temperature is achieved, the machine will maintain target temperature for
24 hours, then rewarm to 37 degrees over 16 hours.
 SECTION:
SUBJECT:
CLINICAL CARE GUIDELINES CCG-3 Page 3 of 6
TARGETED TEMPERATURE MANAGEMENT(TTM)POST RESUSCITATED CARDIAC ARREST
vi. If the Arctic Sun is not available, Blanketrol cooling blankets may be used. Apply
blankets both above and below the patient. Place a sheet between the patient’s skin
and the cooling blanket to prevent cold injury to patient’s skin.
1. Set cooling blanket temperature on manual mode to achieve desired patient
temperature. (Recommended initial cooling blanket temperature setting is
10-15 degrees Celsius).
vii. Remove ice packs once target temperature is reached.
c. Patient monitoring at induction, maintenance
i. Obtain baseline troponin, CPK MB, lactate, electrolytes, glucose, magnesium, ionized
calcium, ABG, PT/PTT, CBC.
ii. Continuously monitor the patient’s core body temperature. Document core
temperature every 15 minutes during the initial cooling phase, and at least hourly
after the goal core temperature of 33 degrees Celsius is reached.
iii. Monitor vital signs at least every 30 minutes until transported to the ICU or Cardiac
Cath Lab, then at least hourly. During initial cooling, peripheral vasoconstriction will
cause an increase in heart rate and blood pressure. Shivering, if allowed to occur,
can also contribute to increased heart rate. Once the patient is controlled with a
sedative analgesic and an optional continuous infusion of neuromuscular blockade,
the heart rate may progress to bradycardia. Bradycardia in this setting may be
refractory to atropine.
iv. Shivering may be first controlled by using counter-warming of the hands and feet.
Continued shivering may be controlled with continuous infusions of sedatives such as
propofol, midazolam, and dexmedetomidine. Analgesia with opiates may also be
used. Although meperidine has been used effectively for the treatment of shivering,
it may lower the seizure threshold in this population. Alternatively, buspirone
and/or magnesium sulfate may also be used.
v. Maintain cerebral perfusion pressures (CPP) of at least 60 mmHg. If intracranial
pressure monitoring is not able to be obtained, the MAP goal should be adequate for
an estimation of optimal CPP.
vi. Monitor and document initial QTc interval with an EKG; monitor QT at least hourly
until target temperature is reached, then every 2 hours. If QT / QTc > 500 ms, notify
 SECTION:
SUBJECT:
CLINICAL CARE GUIDELINES CCG-3 Page 4 of 6
TARGETED TEMPERATURE MANAGEMENT(TTM)POST RESUSCITATED CARDIAC ARREST
practitioner immediately. QT/ QTc > 500 ms is associated with Torsades de pointes,
and is a relative contraindication to continued therapeutic hypothermia.
vii. Monitor blood glucose hourly. Insulin resistance, sometimes severe, may develop
with hypothermia. If hyperglycemia develops, continue monitor blood glucose every
hour and use an insulin infusion to maintain blood glucose < 180. DO NOT use
standard insulin protocol while the patient is hypothermic.
viii. During the 24 hour period of active cooling, there is no indication for sedation
holidays. Train of four should be used to monitor the level of neuromuscular
blockade if necessary. Neurological checks should include assessment of pupillary
reflex and observing spontaneous neurological activity such as signs of cognition,
motor movements, and other brainstem functions.
ix. Observe for intravascular volume depletion due to hypothermia-induced diuresis
which may be accompanied by hypokalemia. This shift reverses when the patient is
re-warmed and may result in hyperkalemia. If K+ is > 3.5, discontinue potassium
administration eight hours before re-warming.
x. Continue standard supportive care for mechanically ventilated, chemically paralyzed
patients, including DVT prophylaxis, head of bed elevated >30 degrees and attentive
skin care.
xi. If time permits before transfer to ICU or Cardiac Cath Lab, insert Salem sump tube
via orogastric route and check for ileus; consider intermittent low suction if present.
Limit medications via OG tube during cooling.
xii. Monitor for potential complications, including hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia,
coagulopathy, pneumonia, sepsis, and rhabdomyolysis.
xiii. Patients should be on continuous EEG monitoring until pharmacologic paralysis is
discontinued. Continuous EEG should be used to assess for brain activity and
seizures.
d. Re-warming
i. At 24 hours after achieving target temperature, the patient should be re-warmed to
a goal of 37 degrees Celsius.
ii. If the Arctic Sun is in use: once the cooling period is over, an alert will sound &
display “Cool Patient End” – hit “Start” to initiate rewarming. Post- rewarming, the
“Normothermia” setting may be used up to 48 hours.
 SECTION:
SUBJECT:
CLINICAL CARE GUIDELINES CCG-3 Page 5 of 6
TARGETED TEMPERATURE MANAGEMENT(TTM)POST RESUSCITATED CARDIAC ARREST
iii. If the Blanketrol was used for cooling, remove cooling blankets and allow passive rewarming. May use regular blankets. Optimally, re-warming should occur no faster
than 1 degree Celsius/hour. If not normothermic at six hours, add Bair Hugger
Warmer.
iv. Neuromuscular blockade, if used solely to prevent shivering, should be stopped
when the cooling is discontinued at 24 hours.
v. Sedation should be weaned during re-warming. Attempt to have a sedation holiday
once the patient temperature reaches 36 degrees Celsius.
vi. Monitor during re-warming for hyperkalemia, hypoglycemia, seizures, hypotension
due to vasodilatation and fluid volume shifts, and recurrent ventricular fibrillation.
vii. Contact physician if patient becomes febrile, > 38.0 degrees Celsius, as hyperthermia
is harmful to the recovering brain.
IV. TTM 36 degrees Celsius
a. Patients being maintained at 36 degrees Celsius may use conservative methods such as
reduction in blankets, decreasing ambient room temperature. More aggressive temperature
management can include cooling blanket and Arctic Sun set at 36 degrees.
b. Sedation and medications/methods for shivering may be used as described above as needed.
c. Maintain targeted temperature of 36 degrees for 24 hours. Temperatures should be
documented every 1-2 hours. Core temperatures are more accurate than peripheral
temperatures.
d. Maintain cerebral perfusion pressures (CPP) of at least 60 mmHg. If intracranial pressure
monitoring is not able to be obtained, the MAP goal should be adequate for an estimation of
optimal CPP.
e. After TTM of 36 degrees for 24 hours, rewarming to 37.0 - 37.5 degrees can be done over 4
hours if using Arctic Sun. Maintain euthermia (under 37.5 degrees) for at least 48 hours post
rewarming.
f. Normal monitoring of blood glucose and electrolytes can be done during TTM of 36 degrees.
g. Continuous EEG should be used to assess for brain activity and seizures.
 SECTION:
SUBJECT:
CLINICAL CARE GUIDELINES CCG-3 Page 6 of 6
TARGETED TEMPERATURE MANAGEMENT(TTM)POST RESUSCITATED CARDIAC ARREST
Approval: Critical Care Advisory Committee
 CPR Committee
 Nursing Standards Committee
Effective Date: 3/2009 (draft), 8/2009 (ICU), 9/2009 (ED)
Revision Date: 9/2010 (ED version) , 8/2017 (ED/ICU policies combined; retitled “Targeted Temperature
Management”) , 2/2022 (Revised & retitled as Guideline)
Gracia Mui, MD (Signed) 03/08/2022
Gracia Mui, MD Date
ICU Surgical Co-Director (Neurology)
Kimberly Metcalf (Signed) 03/08/2022
Kimberly Metcalf MS – PharmD Date
AVP Pharmacy and Ancillary Services
Scott Allen, MD (Signed) 03/08/2022
Scott Allen, MD Date
Chief Medical Officer
Caryl Ryan (Signed) 03/08/2022
Caryl Ryan, MS, BSN, RN Date
Chief Operating Officer, JDH
VP Quality and Patient Services & Chief Nursing Officer